---
title: Frequently asked questions
section: Getting Started
index: 5
---


## Do you have "Do Not Track" feature in email tracking.
Yes, we have "Do Not Track" feature for explicitly not collecting specific user even after tracked email has been sent. However unlike browser, "Do Not Track" signal must be set manually.

## What you do with the SugarCRM credentials and how they remain safe?
The CRM credential, i.e user name and hash password, is stored in the browser <code>localStorage</code>. The credential is used to authenticate to your SugarCRM server. The credential never leave from your browser. It never sent to any server including our Yathit login server. To prevent casual inspection of the credential, it is encrypted with RC4 cipher with SHA1 hash and salt.

## How secure is your Extension?
Security is very important and security is considered from the ground up. All connections are made using a SSL connection encrypted with modern cryptography. We use secure Google cloud services for authentication and data storage. We does not store any of your password in our server. Please email to [support@yathit.com](mailto:support@yathit.com) for more detail.

## Can I use Yathit InboxCRM on multiple computers?
Yes. Licensing is based on Yathit account. You can use it on multiple computers.

## What browsers and operating systems is supported?
Currently the extension is only available in [desktop Chrome web browser](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/). It is available in Windows, OS X and Linux operating system.

## What will happen to my data if I install Yathit InboxCRM?
Yathit InboxCRM does not change your data on SugarCRM nor Gmail. Yathit InboxCRM does not store your CRM and Gmail data on our server. Any change from the extension is directly submitted to your SugarCRM or Google.

## Can I buy Yathit InboxCRM for my entire company?
Yes, you can buy multiple licenses and apply to your entire company.

## How to Switch to another CRM Account?
Remove existing SugarCRM instance in [Extension Options page](chrome-extension://iccdnijlhdogaccaiafdpjmbakdcdakk/option-page.html) and add a new one.

## Does synchronization support Google calendar and tasks.
This feature is coming.

## Why all web sites permission required during installation of the extension?
All web sites permission permission is requested during installation so that the extension does not need to request again for setting up SugarCRM instance. If you prefer incrementally grant permission for better control, you can install [Core Edition](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yathit-inboxcrm-core-edit/egebnnhpekhpmdagldbgkghcmgmobofg) of the extension. Both extension use exactly same code and update at the same time. Only permission manifest are different. 

## Which version of SugarCRM are supported?
We support SugarCRM versions from 4.5 to latest 7.5. All editions of SugarCRM, including community edition, are supported.

## Is SuiteCRM supported.
Yes. The extension is tested with SuiteCRM 7.1 as well.

## How to uninstall Yathit InboxCRM?
See uninstall section in [installation page](installation)
