---
title: Setting
section: Email Tracking
index: 3
---

Email tracking settings are managed in [Chrome Extension](chrome://extensions/) [Option Page](chrome-extension://ldikiokclnbceabnlbkabmcacpiednop/option-page.html). There is also a link to option page in bottom of sidebar panel.

## Default email tracking setting

{% include side-image.html file="tracking-setting.png" %}

By default, you choose to or not to track an email before sending by clicking eye button, {{ "visibility" | svg_icon }}. A green color eye button indicate tracking is enabled. A light gray color eye button indicate tracking is disabled.

However if you want all your email send be tracked, select "Always track" option in "Email Tracking" selection. In this case, the eye button will be not shown in the email compose panel.

The default selection, "Enable tracking" remember current tracking setting and carry over the setting in next compose panel. You can choose "Track normally" option so that tracking is initially enabled. Alternatively you can choose "Do not track normally" option so that tracking is not initially selected.

"Disable tracking" will hide the eye button and will not be track emails.

## Do-not-track

If you have a signal, possibly from your web site, that a person is not to be tracked, you can list its email address in do-not-track list. Email send to do-not-track list members will not include tracking beacon, even if you selected for tracking. If there are already tracked emails, any tracked signal will be ignored. However existing signals have to be delete manually.
