---
title: Frequently asked questions
section: Miscellaneous
index: 2
---


## Do you have “Do Not Track” feature in email tracking?
Yes, we have “Do Not Track” feature. This feature ensures that the users’ information is not collected explicitly even after the tracked email has been sent. However, unlike browser, the “Do Not Track” signal needs to be set manually. 

## What you do with the SugarCRM credentials and how they remain safe?
The SugarCRM credential i.e. user name and hash password are stored in the browser <code>localStorage</code>. The credentials are used to authenticate your SugarCRM server. Your SugarCRM credentials remain within your browser, and are never sent to any server, including our Yathit login server. Moreover, to prevent casual inspection of the credentials, they are encrypted with RC4 cipher with SHA1 hash and salt.

## How secure is your Extension?
Security is very important for us and our clients both; hence, we have taken all necessary measures to ensure the highest security from the ground up. All connections are made using an SSL connection encrypted with modern cryptography. We use secure Google cloud services for authentication and data storage. We do not store your user name and password on our server. 

If you need more details on security, please drop us an email at [support@yathit.com](mailto:support@yathit.com).

## Can I use Yathit InboxCRM on multiple computers?
Yes, you can use it on multiple computers. Licensing is based on a Yathit account not a device. 

## What browsers and operating systems are supported?
Currently, the extension is only available on the [desktop Chrome web browser](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/).  It is available in Windows, OS X, and Linux operating system.

## What will happen to my data if I install Yathit InboxCRM?
Yathit InboxCRM does not make any change to your data on SugarCRM or Gmail. It does not even store your CRM and Gmail data on our server. Any change made from the extension is directly submitted to your SugarCRM server or Google server.

## Can I buy Yathit InboxCRM for my entire company?
Yes, you can buy multiple licenses and apply them your entire company.

## How to Switch to another CRM Account?
You can switch to another CRM account just by removing the existing SugarCRM instance in [Extension Options page](chrome-extension://iccdnijlhdogaccaiafdpjmbakdcdakk/option-page.html) and adding a new one.

## Does synchronization support Google calendar and tasks?
This feature is coming. Stay connected!

## Why all websites permission required during the installation of the extension?
All websites permission is requested during the installation of the extension to avoid the repetitive permission requests when you setup your SugarCRM instance. If you want better control on permission grant, then you install [Core Edition](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yathit-inboxcrm-core-edit/egebnnhpekhpmdagldbgkghcmgmobofg) of the extension. Both extensions use exactly the same code and update at the same time. Only the permission manifests are different. 

## Which versions of SugarCRM are supported?
We support SugarCRM versions from 4.5 to the latest 7.5. All editions of SugarCRM, including community edition, are supported.

## Is SuiteCRM supported?
Yes. The extension is tested with SuiteCRM 7.1 as well.

## How to uninstall Yathit InboxCRM?
See the uninstall section in the [installation page](installation).
