---
title: Installation Guide
section: User Guide
index: 1
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/es3UCAXU19I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Yathit is a web browser extension and supports both [Google Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yathit-sugarcrm-for-gmail/iccdnijlhdogaccaiafdpjmbakdcdakk) and [Opera](https://addons.opera.com/en/extensions/details/yathit-sugarcrm-for-gmail/) desktop browsers. and will support Mozilla Firefox in the near future.


## Installation

Please follow the below steps to install Yathit InboxCRM for SugarCRM:

❶ Click on the below Installation button:

<div class="centered">
    <a id="install-sugarcrm" class="button--primary themed">Add to Chrome</a>
</div>

❷ Click on the [Add Extension] button to allow Yathit SugarCRM for Gmail to get the requested permissions and start installation:

{% include full-screenshot.html file="add-to-chrome.gif" %}

Click "Add" to grant permission and install the extension.

❸ Open your [Gmail](https://mail.google.com)account, then you should see Yathit InboxCRM sidebar panel tab on right side of Gmail website. Click on the button to setup SugarCRM account:

[Screenshot is required]


## Yathih CRM in Chrome Extensions page:
 ([screenshoot]({{ 'chrome-extensions-page.tiff' | asset_path }})). 

* Extension page is used to uninstall, force updating , view the granted permissions for the extension and visit extension option page.
 
* For developer, they can view the browser console to debug extension background page.

* Extension has a background page. It runs only when [Gmail](https://mail.google.com) is opened in the browser or SugarCRM website. 

* The background page injects Yathit sidebar and context panel using extension [content script](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/content_scripts) technique.


## Setting up SugarCRM

❶ Click on the setup link in the extension sidebar home panel, or in Setting > Sugar -Setting panel to bring up Sugar login form:

{% include full-screenshot.html file="sugarcrm-login.gif" %}

❷ Use SugarCRM website URL, username and password to grant the host the required access to your SugarCRM domain. 

❸ Click [Allow] to accept the requested permissions. Your SugarCRM account credentials will be used by SugarCRM server only.

❹ Your SugarCRM username and password are saved in the browser.

❺ The extension will download your SugarCRM meta data and it will take a while to complete loading initial data.


## Login

* Login to Yathit server is optional, but to persist setting and additional feature for licensing, you should log in to Yathit server. 
You can either '[Sign in to Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/185277)' or Login to Yathit server as below:

* Click the Login button on the extension panel:


{% include full-screenshot.html file="sigin-to-chrome.gif" %}

* If your Chrome profile, i.e, the Google account login to the extension, is different from the Gmail you want to use, [switch Chrome profile](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/2364824) that you want to use. Briefly, to switch Chrome profile, click you profile name on the top right of the Chrome browser, to show menu and then select another account or click Manage account. It will let you to add your chosen Gmail account.

* To login with Chrome sign in, click the Login button while holding SHIFT key:

{% include full-screenshot.html file="login-to-yathit.gif" %}


### Using Extension in multiple Gmail accounts

* By default only one Gmail account will use Extension. 

* On other Gmail session, the extension will be hidden on side. 

* If you want to use all Gmail accounts, you can do so by setup the related configuration in General Preference Setting page:

{% include full-screenshot.html file="enable-all-gmail-sessions.gif" %}
