---
title: Social+
section: Inbound Messages
index: 3
---

We support over 50 social networks data including Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google Plus.


## How to view social network profiles


{% include side-image.html file="social-networks-view.gif" %}
On context panel on right side of your email message shows social network information of the contact. Soical network icons will appear if we can find the user of the contact in particular social neworks. The main four social network, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google Plus, icons always show. The color of icon changes to black if we cannot find contact in the social network. Hover over to the icon will show social network information on hover panel. Each social network information has two parts, 1) personal profiles and 2) activity feed.

Personal profile of a social network are shown at the top of hover panel. If profile photo is available in the network, it is displayed on the left side. You can visit its personal social network page by clicking on the top link. Additional information on the network are shown below including location, if available.

Activity feeds are shown below personal profile section. For twitter, it will be recent tweets.

## Permission and authenticating to social networks

Unless you have grant permission to the extension to, only publicly available information are shown. In general, two kinds of permissions are required. Host access permission is required to request background request directly from extension to social network site. Additional oauth token is required to perform on the network on your behalf. Yellow icon color indicates your action is required. Click the icon to begin authorization process.

{% include full-screenshot.html file="social-networks-grant-host-permission.gif" %}
