---
title: Link to Social Networks
section: User Guide
index: 5
---

{{ site.product }} supports over 50 social networks data including Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google Plus.


## How to view social network profiles


{% include side-image.html file="social-networks-view.gif" %}
* At the right side of the email message there is a context panel shows social network information of the contact. 

* Social network icons will be displayed if the user of the contact is belongs to particular social networks. 

* The icons of the main four social networks, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google Plus, will always be displayed.

* The color of the social network icon will be changed to black if the contact doesn't belong to it.

* Social network information will be displayed over the icon on mouse hover.

* The social network information includes:

### ❶ Personal Profiles:

* Displayed at the top of the hover panel. 

* If the profile photo is available in the network, it will be displayed on the left side. 

* To visit the personal social network page, click on the top link. 

* Additional information of the social network are displayed below including location, if available.

### ❷ Activity Feed:

* Activity feeds are displayed below the personal profile section. 

* Recent user tweets also listed in the activity feeds.


## Permission and authenticating to social networks

* By default, the public available information are shown, unless you have granted additional permissions to the extension.

* In general, two kinds of permissions are required. 

* Host access permission: used to achieve the directly request to social network site.

* Additional oauth token is required to perform on the network on your behalf. 

* The Yellow icon color indicates that your action is required. Click on the icon to begin the authorization process.

{% include full-screenshot.html file="social-networks-grant-host-permission.gif" %}
