---
title: Login
section: Installation Guide
index: 1
---


Yathit browser extension works even without login to Yathit server, however to persist setting and additional features for licensing, you should log in to Yathit server. 

In the Yathit sidebar, go to about page, {{ "ydn-logo-bw" | svg_icon }}. If you are not login, you should see "Login to Yathit server" link, as shown below.

{{ "about-page-login-link.png" | screenshot }}

Similarly, you can login in Yathit sidebar home page, {{ "home" | svg_icon }}. The button can be hided using setting however.  

{{ "sidebar-login-button.png" | screenshot }}


Click the Login button to begin.


{% include full-screenshot.html file="login-to-yathit.gif" %}


## Using Extension in multiple Gmail accounts

By default only one Gmail account will use Extension. On other Gmail session, the extension will be hidden on side. If you want to use all Gmail accounts, you can do so by setup the related configuration in General Preference Setting page:

{% include full-screenshot.html file="enable-all-gmail-sessions.gif" %}

## Sign-in with Chrome Profile

Instead of login to Yathit server, you can also login with Chrome, a build-in browser authentication system. You can view your chrome profile on the top right corner of Chrome browser. Also note that it is different from Gmail account, although you use same username and password to authenticate Chrome browser. When using Chrome Profile login, access token for Google account, which is required for syncing Contact or Calendar, are not stored in Yathit server.  

To login with [Sign in to Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/185277), click the Login button while holding SHIFT key. 

If your Chrome profile, i.e, the Google account login to the extension, is different from the Gmail you want to use, [switch Chrome profile](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/2364824) that you want to use. Briefly, to switch Chrome profile, click you profile name on the top right of the Chrome browser, to show menu and then select another account or click Manage account. It will let you to add your chosen Gmail account.

